primitives/functions.md, before:

# Functions

Function is a largely accepted concept to divide a program in small
parts. An ymir program start with the function `main` that you have
already seen in the previous chapters.

All function are declared using the keyword **`def`**. And are called
using parameters separated by commas inside parentheses.

```ymir 
import std::io 

def main () {
	foo ();
}

def foo () {
	println ("Foo");
	
	bar ();
}

def bar () {
	println ("Bar");
}
```

The declaration of a function can be made anywhere in the program, the
order is not important for the compiler, so even if `foo` is declared
after the `main` function, it can be called without any problem.


## Parameters 

The parameters of a function a declared after its name, and the syntax
is similar to a declaration of a variable, but the **`let`** keyword
is ommitted as it is obvious.

```ymir 
import std::io 

def foo (x : i32) {
	println ("The value of x is : ", x);
}

def bar (x : i32, y : i32) {
	println ("The value of x + y : ", x + y);
}

def main () {
	foo (5);
	bar (3, 4);
}
```

Values can be specified on a function parameter. If a parameter has a
value, it is the value that is used by default, and it is therefore
optionnal to specify value when calling the function for that
particular parameter. If you still want to specify a value, you will
have to use a named expression that is formed using the token
**`->`**.

```ymir 
import std::io

def foo (x : i32 = 8) {
	println ("The value of x is : ", x);
}

def main () {
	foo ();
	foo (x-> 7);
}
```

The named expression can equally be used for parameters that does not
have default value. A named expression, will allow you to specify the
parameter in the order you want. The algorithm, to determine which
parameter an argument is refering to, illustrated by the example : 

```ymir
def foo (x : i32, y : i32 = 9, z : i32) {
	println (x, " ", y, " ", z);
}

def main () {
	foo (8, y-> 1, x-> 2);
}
```

The algorithm is the following : 

```ymir
Let args be the list of arguments ([y-> 1, x-> 2, 8])
Let params be the list of parameters (x, y=9, z)
Let final_args = [], be the list of final arguments
for each p in params :
	for a in args :
	    if p.name == a.name : 
			final_args = final_args ~ [a]
			remove p in params
			remove a in args
			found = true
			break
	if not found : 
		final_args = final_args ~ [args [0]]
		remove p in params
		remove args [0] in args	
```

In this example, the result of each step will be : 
```
1, x : [x-> 2]
2, y : [x-> 2, y-> 1]
3, z : [x-> 2, y-> 1, 8]
```

## Function body

The body of a function is an expression. Everything in ymir is an
expression, but every expression does not always have a value, and can
be of type `void`.

A simple `add` function can be writter as follows : 
```ymir
def add (x : i32, y : i32)-> i32 
	x + y
```

Or using a more complex expression, as block, which is an expression
containing a set of statement. A block is surronded by the token `{}`,
and the last expression in a block is its value. 

```ymir
def main () {
	let x = {
		let y = 9;
		y + 1
	}
}
```

The token `;`, is a way of specifying that an expression ends in a
block, and that the value of the block is the expression that
follows. If no expression follows the value of the block is evaluated
to nothing and its type is **`void`**. For example, if we write the
following code :

```ymir
def foo () -> i32 
    9


def main () {
    let x = {
        foo ();
    }
}
```

You should get the following error from the compiler : 
```
Error : cannot declare var of type void
 --> main.yr:(6,9)
    | 
 6  |     let x = {
    |         ^

ymir1: fatal error: 
compilation terminated.
```

## Function return type

Sometimes a function can return a value, the type of the value must be
defined at the end of the function definition before the value, by
using the token **`->`**. The type of the value of the function must
be the same as the type defined in the prototype.

```ymir
def foo (x : i32)-> i32 
	x + 1
	
def bar (x : i32, y : i32) -> i32 {
	let z = x + y;
	println ("The value of z : ", z);
	foo (z)
}
```

The keyword `return` is used to end a function prematurely.

```ymir
def isDivisable (x : i32, z : i32) -> bool {
	if (z == 0) return false;
	
	(x % z) == 0
}
```

If the value of the body of the function is not equivalent to the type
of the function, and if there is a possibility that the function never
encounter a return statement an error is returned by the compiler. For
example with the following code :

```ymir
import std::io

def add_one (x : i32)-> i32 {
	x + 1;
}

def main () {
	let x = add_one (5);
	println ("The value of x : ", x);
}
```

You should get the following error : 

```
Error : incompatible types i32 and void
 --> main.yr:(3,29)
    | 
 3  | def add_one (x : i32)-> i32 {
    |                             ^
Note : 
 --> main.yr:(5,1)
    | 
 5  | }
    | ^

ymir1: fatal error: 
compilation terminated.
```

But if you change the last expression by a return statement, for example : 

```ymir
import std::io

def add_one (x : i32)-> i32 {
    if (x == 12) {
        return x + 1
    } else {
        return x + 2
    }
}

def main () {
    let x = add_one (5);
    println ("The value of x : ", x);
}
```

The compiler won't return any error.

Commit message:

Fixed spelling errors in functions.md

primitives/functions.md, after:

# Functions

Function is a largely accepted concept to divide a program in small
parts. An ymir program start with the function `main` that you have
already seen in the previous chapters.

All functions are declared using the keyword **`def`**. And are called
using parameters separated by commas inside parentheses.

```ymir 
import std::io 

def main () {
	foo ();
}

def foo () {
	println ("Foo");
	
	bar ();
}

def bar () {
	println ("Bar");
}
```

The declaration of a function can be made anywhere in the program, the
order is not important for the compiler, so even if `foo` is declared
after the `main` function, it can be called without any problem.


## Parameters 

The parameters of a function are declared after its name, and the syntax
is similar to a declaration of a variable, but the **`let`** keyword
is ommitted as it is obvious.

```ymir 
import std::io 

def foo (x : i32) {
	println ("The value of x is : ", x);
}

def bar (x : i32, y : i32) {
	println ("The value of x + y : ", x + y);
}

def main () {
	foo (5);
	bar (3, 4);
}
```

Values can be specified on a function parameter. If a parameter has a
value, it is the value that is used by default, and it is therefore
optionnal to specify value when calling the function for that
particular parameter. If you still want to specify a value, you will
have to use a named expression that is formed using the token
**`->`**.

```ymir 
import std::io

def foo (x : i32 = 8) {
	println ("The value of x is : ", x);
}

def main () {
	foo ();
	foo (x-> 7);
}
```

The named expression can equally be used for parameters that does not
have default value. A named expression will allow you to specify the
parameter in the order you want. The algorithm, to determine which
parameter an argument is refering to, is illustrated by the example : 

```ymir
def foo (x : i32, y : i32 = 9, z : i32) {
	println (x, " ", y, " ", z);
}

def main () {
	foo (8, y-> 1, x-> 2);
}
```

The algorithm is the following : 

```ymir
Let args be the list of arguments ([y-> 1, x-> 2, 8])
Let params be the list of parameters (x, y=9, z)
Let final_args = [], be the list of final arguments
for each p in params :
	for a in args :
	    if p.name == a.name : 
			final_args = final_args ~ [a]
			remove p in params
			remove a in args
			found = true
			break
	if not found : 
		final_args = final_args ~ [args [0]]
		remove p in params
		remove args [0] in args	
```

In this example, the result of each step will be : 
```
1, x : [x-> 2]
2, y : [x-> 2, y-> 1]
3, z : [x-> 2, y-> 1, 8]
```

## Function body

The body of a function is an expression. Everything in ymir is an
expression, but every expression does not always have a value, and can
be of type `void`.

A simple `add` function can be writter as follows : 
```ymir
def add (x : i32, y : i32)-> i32 
	x + y
```

Or using a more complex expression, as block, which is an expression
containing a set of statements. A block is surronded by the tokens `{}`,
and the last expression in a block is its value. 

```ymir
def main () {
	let x = {
		let y = 9;
		y + 1
	}
}
```

The token `;`, is a way of specifying that an expression ends in a
block, and that the value of the block is the expression that
follows. If no expression follows the value of the block, it is evaluated
to nothing and its type is **`void`**. For example, if we write the
following code :

```ymir
def foo () -> i32 
    9


def main () {
    let x = {
        foo ();
    }
}
```

You should get the following error from the compiler : 
```
Error : cannot declare var of type void
 --> main.yr:(6,9)
    | 
 6  |     let x = {
    |         ^

ymir1: fatal error: 
compilation terminated.
```

## Function return type

Sometimes a function can return a value, the type of the value must be
defined at the end of the function definition before the value, by
using the token **`->`**. The type of the value of the function must
be the same as the type defined in the prototype.

```ymir
def foo (x : i32)-> i32 
	x + 1
	
def bar (x : i32, y : i32) -> i32 {
	let z = x + y;
	println ("The value of z : ", z);
	foo (z)
}
```

The keyword `return` is used to end a function prematurely.

```ymir
def isDivisable (x : i32, z : i32) -> bool {
	if (z == 0) return false;
	
	(x % z) == 0
}
```

If the value of function's body is not equivalent to the type
of the function, and if there is a possibility that the function never
encounter a return statement, an error is returned by the compiler. For
example with the following code :

```ymir
import std::io

def add_one (x : i32)-> i32 {
	x + 1;
}

def main () {
	let x = add_one (5);
	println ("The value of x : ", x);
}
```

You should get the following error : 

```
Error : incompatible types i32 and void
 --> main.yr:(3,29)
    | 
 3  | def add_one (x : i32)-> i32 {
    |                             ^
Note : 
 --> main.yr:(5,1)
    | 
 5  | }
    | ^

ymir1: fatal error: 
compilation terminated.
```

But if you change the last expression by a return statement, for example : 

```ymir
import std::io

def add_one (x : i32)-> i32 {
    if (x == 12) {
        return x + 1
    } else {
        return x + 2
    }
}

def main () {
    let x = add_one (5);
    println ("The value of x : ", x);
}
```

The compiler won't return any error.
